#2.   SUBSYSTEM DEFINITION AND SCOPE

##2.1.   General

The control-command subsystem is defined as that set of functions and their implementation, which allow the safe movement of trains.

The TSI control-command defines the essential requirements for those parts of the Control-command subsystem that have relevance to interoperability, and therefore are subject to EC declaration of verification.

The features of the Control-command subsystem that are related to the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system are determined by:

1. The FUNCTIONS that are essential for the safe control of the railway traffic, and that are essential for the operation, including those required under degraded conditions.

2. INTERFACES.

3. The level of PERFORMANCE required to meet the essential requirements.

The specification of these functions, interfaces and performance requirements are provided in Chapter 4 (Characterisation of the Subsystem) where supporting standards are referenced.

##2.2.   Overview

The interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail network depends in part on the ability of the on-board control-command equipment to work with various track-side equipment.

Because of the mobility of the onboard part, the control-command subsystem is divided in two parts: onboard assembly and track-side assembly (see Figure 8 in Annex D).

###2.2.1.   Interoperability

This TSI defines the functions, interfaces and performance requirements to ensure the achievement of technical interoperability. Technical interoperability is the prerequisite for operational interoperability, in which the driving is based on consistent information displayed in the cabs and is in accordance with unified operational requirements defined for the conventional network. This TSI also contains functions that are needed to achieve operational interoperability (see section 4.3.1 Interface to the subsystem traffic operation and management).

###2.2.2.   Classes of control-command systems

Within the Control-command subsystem two classes of train protection and radio communication systems are defined:

**Class A:** The unified Control-command system.

**Class B:** Control-command systems and applications existing before entry into force of the Directive 2001/16/EC, limited to those described in Annex B.

In order to achieve interoperability, the trains’ on-board control-command assembly will provide:

- the Class A radio and data communication interfaces to the infrastructure, in case of operation with Class A infrastructure,

- the Class B radio and data communication interfaces to the infrastructure, in case of operation with Class B infrastructure. For signalling data, this can be achieved with the use of a specific transmission module (STM) that allows a Class A On-board system to operate on lines fitted with Class B track-side system using the Class B data. The interface between the Class A on-board system and STM’s is defined in this TSI.

Member States have the responsibility to ensure that Class B systems are managed during their lifetime; in particular any changes to these specifications must not prejudice interoperability.

###2.2.3.   Levels of application

The interfaces specified by this TSI define the means of data transmission to, and sometimes from, trains. The Class A specifications referenced by this TSI provide options from which a project may choose the means of transmission that meet its requirements. Three levels of application are defined:

**Level 1:** Data transmission is achieved by spot transmission (Eurobalise) and in some cases by semi-continuous transmission (Euroloop or radio in-fill). The detection of trains is achieved by track-based equipment, usually track-circuits or axle counters. Signalling information is communicated to the driver by equipment in the driving cab and, optionally, lineside signals.

**Level 2:** Data transmission is achieved by continuous radio transmission (GSM-R). For some functions, the radio transmission requires complementing by spot transmission (Eurobalise). The detection of trains is achieved by track-based equipment, usually track-circuits or axle counters. Signalling information is communicated to the driver by equipment in the driving cab and, optionally, lineside signals.

**Level 3:** Data transmission is achieved by continuous radio transmission (GSM-R). For some functions, the radio transmission requires complementing by spot transmission (Eurobalise). The detection of trains is achieved by equipment on-board, reporting to the control-command track-side assembly. Signalling information is communicated to the driver by equipment in the driving cab.

The requirements of this TSI apply to all levels of application. Implementation is addressed in Chapter 7 (Implementation of the TSI control-command). A train equipped with a Class A On-board system for a given level of application shall be able to operate on that level and any lower one.

###2.2.4.   Infrastructure network borders

The local technical interfaces between the Track-side control-command Assemblies of neighbouring infrastructures shall not restrict the uninterrupted passage of trains when crossing borders between them.

Any high-speed or conventional train fitted with Class A On-board system in accordance with the corresponding TSI shall not, on grounds concerning anyone of both TSIs, be restricted in operating on any high-speed or conventional route with infrastructure fitted with Class A track-side system in accordance with the corresponding TSI, as soon as the register of rolling stock of that train and the register of Infrastructure of that route have been cross-checked for interoperability.
