#3. THE ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTROL-COMMANDCONTROL-COMMAND SUBSYSTEM

##3.1. General

The interoperability Directive 2001/16/EC Article 4(1) requires that the trans-European conventional rail system, subsystems and the interoperability constituents including interfaces meet the essential requirements set out in general terms in Annex III to the Directive. The eEssential requirements are:

- safety,
- reliability and availability,
- health,
- environmental protection,
- technical compatibility.

The Directive allows that the essential requirements may be applied to the whole trans-European conventional rail system or be specific to each subsystem and its interoperability constituents.

The Essential Requirements are taken in turn, below. Requirements on Class B systems are the responsibility of the relevant Member State.

##3.2.   Specific Aspects for the control-command subsystem

###3.2.1.   Safety

Every project to which this specification is applied shall put into effect the measures necessary to demonstrate that the level of risk of an incident occurring that is within the scope of the Control-command subsystem, is not higher than the objective for the service. To ensure that the solutions to achieve safety do not jeopardise interoperability the requirements of the basic parameter defined in section  4.2.1 (Control-command safety characteristics relevant to interoperability) shall be respected.

For Class A system, the global safety objective for the subsystem is apportioned between the on-board and Track-side Assemblies. The detailed requirements are specified in the basic parameter defined in section 4.2.1 (Control-command safety characteristics relevant to interoperability). This safety requirement must be met together with the availability requirements as defined in Section 3.2.2 (Reliability and Availability).

For Class B systems used for conventional rail operation, it is the responsibility of the appropriate Member State (defined in Annex B) to:

- ensure that the Class B system design meets national safety targets,
- ensure that the application of the Class B system meets national safety targets,
- define the safe operating parameters and conditions of use of the Class B system (including, but not limited to, maintenance and degraded modes).

###3.2.2.   Reliability and Availability

(a) For Class A system, the global reliability and availability objectives for the subsystem are apportioned between the On-board and Track-side Assemblies. The detailed requirements are specified inthe Basic Parameter defined in section 4.2.1 (control-command safety characteristics relevant to interoperability).

(b) The quality of the maintenance organisation for all systems comprising the control-command subsystem shall ensure that the level of risk is controlled as constituents age and wear. The quality of the maintenance shall ensure that safety is not prejudiced because of these activities. See section 4.5 (Maintenance rules).

###3.2.3.   Health

According to the European regulations and to the national regulations which are compatible with the European legislation, precautions shall be taken to ensure that the materials used in and the design of Control-command subsystems do not constitute a health hazard to persons having access to them.

###3.2.4.   Environmental protection

According to the European regulations and to the national regulations which are compatible with the European legislation:

- the control-command equipment, if subjected to excessive heat or fire, shall not exceed limits for the emission of fumes or gases which are harmful to the environment,

- the control-command equipment shall not contain substances which may during their normal use abnormally contaminate the environment,

- the control-command equipment shall be subject to the European legislation in force controlling the limits to the emission of and the susceptibility to electromagnetic interference along the boundaries of railway property,

- the control-command equipment shall comply with existing regulations on noise pollution,

- the control-command equipment shall not give rise to any inadmissible level of vibration which could jeopardise the integrity of the infrastructure (when the infrastructure is in the correct state of maintenance).

###3.2.5.   Technical compatibility

Technical compatibility includes the functions, interfaces and performances required to achieve interoperability.

The requirements of technical compatibility are subdivided in the following three categories:

- the first category sets out the general engineering requirements for interoperability, that is environmental conditions, internal electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) within the railway boundaries, and installation. These compatibility requirements are defined in this Chapter,
- the second category describes how the control-command subsystem has to be applied and what functions it has to perform in order that interoperability is achieved. This category is defined in Chapter 4,
- the third category describes how the control-command subsystem has to be operated in order that interoperability is achieved. This category is defined in Chapter 4.

####3.2.5.1.   Engineering compatibility

#####3.2.5.1.1.   Physical environmental conditions

Systems complying with the Class A system requirements shall be capable of operating under the climatic and physical conditions which exist along the relevant part of the trans-European conventional network. For the interfaces to rolling stock see section 4.3.2.5 (Physical environmental conditions) and for the interfaces to infrastructure see section 4.3.3.3 (Physical environmental conditions).

Systems complying with the Class B system requirements shall conform at least to the physical environmental specifications applying to the corresponding Class B system, in order to be capable of operating under the climatic and physical conditions which exist along the conventional lines concerned.

#####3.2.5.1.2.   Railway internal electromagnetic compatibility

The Basic Parameter is described in section 4.2.12 (Electromagnetic compatibility). For the interfaces to rolling stock see section 4.3.2.6 (Electromagnetic compatibility), for the interfaces to infrastructure see section 4.3.3.4 (Electromagnetic compatibility) and for the interfaces to Energy see section 4.3.4.1 (Electromagnetic compatibility).

####3.2.5.2.   Control-command compatibility.

Chapter 4, supported by Annexes A and B, defines the requirements for the interoperability of the control-command subsystem.

In addition, this TSI together with the control-command TSI for the trans-European high-speed rail system ensures, as far as the control-command subsystem is concerned, the technical interoperability between trans-European high- speed rail and conventional rail systems when both are fitted with Class A system.
