#4.   CHARACTERISATION OF THE SUBSYSTEM

##4.1.   Introduction

The trans-European conventional rail system, to which the Directive 2001/16/EC applies and of which the control-command subsystem is a part, is an integrated system whose consistency must be verified. This consistency must be checked in particular with regard to the specifications of the subsystem, its interfaces vis-à-vis the system in which it is integrated, as well as the operating and maintenance rules.

Taking account of all the relevant essential requirements, the control-command subsystem is characterised by the following basic parameters:

- control-command safety characteristics relevant to interoperability (section 4.2.1),
- on-board ETCS functionality (section 4.2.2),
- track-side ETCS functionality (section 4.2.3),
- EIRENE functions (section 4.2.4),
- ETCS and EIRENE air gap interfaces (section 4.2.5),
- on-board Interfaces Internal to Control Command (section 4.2.6),
- track-side Interfaces Internal to Control Command (section 4.2.7),
- key management (section 4.2.8),
- ETCS-ID management (section 4.2.9),
- HABD (hot axle box detector) (section 4.2.10),
- compatibility with track-side Train Detection Systems (section 4.2.11),
- Electromagnetic compatibility (section 4.2.12),
- ETCS DMI (driver machine interface) (section 4.2.13)
- EIRENE DMI (driver machine interface) (section 4.2.14)
- interface to data recording for regulatory purposes (section 4.2.15)
- Visibility of track-side control-command objects (section 4.2.16)

The requirements of sections

- 4.2.10 (HABD (Hot axle box detector)),
- 4.2.11 (Compatibility with track-side train detection systems),
- 4.2.12 (Electromagnetic compatibility),
- 4.2.16 (Visibility of track-side Control-command objects)

shall always be applied, independently of the class of system.

All other requirements in section 4.2 (Functional and technical specifications of the subsystem) shall always be applied to the Class A system only. Requirements of Class B systems are the responsibility of the appropriate Member State. Annex B deals with the characteristics of the Class B system and defines the responsible Member States.

The STMs, which enable the Class A on-board system to operate over Class B infrastructure, are subject to the Class B requirements.

To achieve interoperability it is not necessary to standardise all the functions within the whole control-command subsystem. The functionality for automatic train protection and automatic train control considered in chapter 4 is:

- on-board standard functions, ensuring that every train will react to data received from track-side in a predictable way,
- track-side standard functions, able to process data from national interlocking and signalling systems and to translate such data into standard messages for the trains,
- standard interfaces for track-to-train and train-to-track communication.

The control-command functions are classified in categories indicating, for example, whether they are optional or mandatory. The categories are defined in Annex A, Index 1 and Annex A, Index 32 and the classification of the functions are indicated within their text.

Annex A, Index 3 provides the Glossary of ETCS terms and definitions which are used in the specifications referred in Annex A.

In light of the essential requirements in Chapter 3, the functional and technical specifications of the control-command subsystem are as follows:

##4.2.   Functional and technical specifications of the subsystem

###4.2.1   Control-command safety characteristics relevant to interoperability

This basic parameter describes the safety requirements on On-board assemblies and the safety requirements on Track-side assemblies.

With reference to the essential requirement ‘safety’ (see section 3.2.1, Safety), this basic parameter establishes the mandatory requirements for interoperability:

- to ensure that the solutions to achieve safety do not jeopardise interoperability the requirements of Annex A, Index 47 shall be respected,

- for the safety related part of one on-board assembly as well as for one track-side assembly, the safety requirement for ETCS level 1 or level 2 (1) is: tolerable hazard rate (THR) of 10-9/hour (for random failures) corresponding to Safety Integrity Level 4. The detailed requirements for Class A equipment are specified in Annex A, Index 27. Less restrictive safety requirements on THR values for track-side equipment may be adopted, provided that the safety objective for the service is met.

- The reliability and availability requirements of Annex A, Index 28 shall be respected.

###4.2.2.   On-board ETCS functionality

This basic parameter describes the ETCS on-board functionality. It contains all functions to run a train in a safe way. The performance of the functions shall conform to Annex A, Index 14. These functions shall be implemented in accordance with Annex A, Index 1, 2, 4, 13, 23, 24, 53 and the technical specifications indicated below:

- Communicating with the control-command track-side assembly. The in-fill data transmission function in ETCS Level 1 applications is only mandatory on-board under the conditions defined in Chapter 7. Data radio functionality for ETCS is only mandatory for ETCS Level 2 or ETCS Level 3 applications.
 - Eurobalise reception. See Annex A, Index 9, 36, 43
 - Euroloop reception. See Annex A, Index 15, 16, 50
 - Radio transmission and radio messages protocol management. See Annex A, Index 10, 11, 12, 18, 19, 22, 39, 40.
- Communicating with the driver
 - Supporting driving. See Annex A, Index 51
 - Providing odometry information. See Annex A, Index 51.

- Communicating with the STM’s. See Annex A, Index 8, 25, 26, 36, 52. This function includes:
 - Managing the STM’s output
 - Providing data to be used by the STM
 - Managing STM transitions.

- Providing the automatic train protection function and cab-signalling. See Annex A, Index 6, 7, 31, 37. This function includes:

 - Locating the train in a Eurobalise co-ordination system, which is the basis for supervising the dynamic speed profile
 - Calculating the dynamic speed profile for its mission
 - Supervising the dynamic speed profile during its mission
 - Selecting the speed supervision mode
 - Supervising the train according national values
 - Defining and providing the intervention function
 - Setting the train characteristics.

- Demonstrating the completeness of the train (train integrity) — mandatory for level 3, not required for level 1 or 2.
- Equipment health monitoring and failure mode support. This function includes:
 - Initialising the on-board ETCS functionality
 - Providing failure mode support.
 - Isolation of the on-board ETCS functionality.
 
- Support data recording for regulatory purposes. See Annex A, Index 5, 41, 55.
- The vigilance function. See Annex A, Index 42. Implementation may be:
 - Outside the ERTMS/ETCS On-board, interoperability constituent (see Chapter 5), with an optional interface to the ERTMS/ETCS On-board, or
 - Inside the ERTMS/ETCS On-board.

###4.2.3.   Track-side ETCS functionality

This basic parameter describes the ETCS track-side functionality. It contains all ETCS functionality to provide a safe path to a specific train. The performance of the functions shall conform to Annex A, Index 14. These functions shall be implemented in accordance with Annex A, Index 1, 2, 4, 13, 23, 24, 31, 37, 53 and the technical specifications indicated below:

- Communication with track-side signalling equipment (interlocking, signal)

- Locating a specific train in a Eurobalise co-ordination system (levels 2 and 3)

- Translating the information from track-side signalling equipment into a standard format for the control-command On-board Assembly.

- Generating movement authorities including track description and orders assigned to a specific train.
- Communicating with the Control-command On-board Assembly. This includes:
 - Eurobalise transmission. See Annex A, Index 9, 43
 - Radio in-fill. See Annex A, Index 18, 19, 21. Radio in-fill is only relevant in level 1 in which it is optional. (see also section 7.2.6)
 - Euroloop. See Annex A, Index 16, 50. Euroloop is only relevant in level 1 in which it is optional (see also section 7.2.6)
 - RBC radio communication. See Annex A, Index 10, 11, 12, 39, 40. RBC radio communication is only relevant to level 2 and level 3.
- Providing track clearance information to the interlocking. This function is only required for level 3.

###4.2.4.   EIRENE functions
This basic parameter describes the EIRENE voice and data communication functions:
- Driver call related functions
- Operational radio functions
- Data communication.

These functions shall be implemented in accordance with the technical specifications indicated in Annex A, Index 32, 33 and 48 and their performance shall conform to Annex A Index 54.

###4.2.5.   ETCS and EIRENE air gap interfaces
The complete specification of these interfaces consists of two parts:

- specification of the protocols for the transport of information from/to ERTMS functions and for ensuring safety in the communication.
- specification of the interfaces between pieces of equipment. The interfaces between the equipment are described in:
 - Section 4.2.6 (on-board interfaces internal to control-command) for on-board
 - Section 4.2.7 (trackside interfaces internal to control-command) for track-side

This basic parameter describes the air gap between track-side and onboard control-command assemblies. It includes:

- the physical, electrical and electromagnetic values to be respected to allow a safe functioning,
- the communication protocol to be used,
- the availability of the communication channel.

The following specifications apply:

- radio communications with the train.

Class A radio communication interfaces shall operate in the R-GSM Band. See Annex A, Index 35. The protocols shall comply with Annex A Index 10, 18, 19, 39, 40

- Eurobalise and Euroloop communication with the train.

Eurobalise communication interfaces shall comply with Annex A Index 9, 43. Euroloop communication interfaces shall comply with Annex A Index 16, 50.

###4.2.6.   On-board interfaces internal to control-command

This basic parameter consists of three parts.

####4.2.6.1.   Interface between ETCS and STM

The specific transmission module (STM) allows ETCS on-board to operate on lines fitted with Class B systems.

The interface between the on-board ETCS functionality and the STMs for Class B systems is defined in Annex A, Index 4, 8, 25, 26. Annex A, Index 45 specifies the K interface. Implementation of the K interface is optional but if done, must be in accordance with Annex A, Index 45.

####4.2.6.1.   GSM-R/ETCS

The interface between the Class A radio and the on-board ETCS functionality. These requirements are specified in Annex A Index 4, 7, 20, 22, 34.

####4.2.6.2.   Odometry

The interface between the odometry function and ERTMS/ETCS on-board shall meet the requirements of Annex A, Index 44. This interface only contributes to this basic parameter when odometry equipment is supplied as a separate interoperability constituent (see section 5.2.2, Grouping of interoperability constituents).

###4.2.7.   Trackside interfaces internal to control-command

This basic parameter consists of six parts.

####4.2.7.1.   Functional interface between RBCs

This interface is used to define the data to be exchanged between neighbouring radio block centres (RBC) to be able to move in a safe way a train from one RBC area to another. It describes:

- information from the ‘handing over’ RBC to the ‘accepting’ RBC,

- information from the ‘accepting’ RBC to the ‘handing over’ RBC
These requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 12.

####4.2.7.2.   Technical interface between RBCs

This is the technical interface between two RBC's. These requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 58.

####4.2.7.3.   GSM-R/RBC

This is the interface between the Class A radio system and the track-side ETCS functionality. These requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 4, 20, 22, 34.

####4.2.7.4.   Eurobalise/LEU

This is the interface between Eurobalise and the lineside electronic unit (LEU). These requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 9. This interface only contributes to this basic parameter when Eurobalise and LEUs are supplied as separate interoperability constituents (see section 5.2.2, Grouping of interoperability constituents).

####4.2.7.5.   Euroloop/LEU

This is the interface between Euroloop and the LEU. These requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 16. This interface only contributes to this basic parameter when Euroloop and LEUs are supplied as separate interoperability constituents (see section 5.2.2, Grouping of interoperability constituents).

####4.2.7.6.   Requirements on pre-fitting of ERTMS track side equipment

This is the interface between track-side Class A equipment and track-side control-command infrastructure. These requirements are specified in Annex A Index 59. This Index describes means for track-side pre-fitting of Class A equipment.

###4.2.8.   Key management

This basic parameter concerns the safety related data transmitted via radio that is protected by mechanisms that need cryptographic keys. The infrastructure managers and railway undertakings shall provide a management system that controls and manages the keys. A key management interface is required:

- between the key management systems of different infrastructure managers,

- between the key management systems of railway undertakings and the infrastructure managers,

- between the key management system and the on-board and track-side ETCS equipment.

The requirements to the key management between key management systems of interoperable regions are specified in Annex A, Index 11.

###4.2.9.   ETCS-ID management

This basic parameter concerns the unique ETCS-identities for equipment in track-side and on-board assemblies. The requirements are specified in Annex A, Index 23. The allocation of variables is defined in Annex A, Index 53.

Suppliers of on-board control-command equipment are responsible for the management of unique identities within the allocated range as defined in Annex A, Index 53. Rolling stock keepers shall provide a management system that controls and manages the identities during the life-cycle of the assembly.

In Annex A, Index 53 Member States are allocated ranges of identities. Member States are responsible for the management of allocation of these ranges to the contracting entities in their State.

Contracting entities of track-side assemblies are responsible for the management of unique identities within their allocated range. The infrastructure manager shall provide a management system that controls and manages the identities during the life-cycle of the assembly.

###4.2.10.   HABD (Hot axle box detector)

This basic parameter specifies the requirements for the track-side equipment, used to check if the temperature of passing rolling stock axle bearings has exceeded a certain value and to transmit this information to a control centre. The requirements are defined in Annex A, Appendix 2.

The treatment of rolling stock equipped with on-board detection is also described in TSI RS HS section 4.2.11.

###4.2.11.   Compatibility with track-side train detection systems

This basic parameter describes the characteristics of track-side train detection systems that are necessary to be activated by rolling stock which conforms to the rolling stock TSI.

Rolling stock shall have the characteristics necessary for the operation of track-side train detection systems. In Annex A, Appendix 1 the requirements related to the characteristics of a vehicle are specified. These characteristics are defined in TSI rolling stock HS and TSI rolling stock freight wagons in the sections given in the table, and will be included in future rolling stock TSI’s.


| Parameter | Appendix 1 TSI control-command | TSI rolling stock HS | TSI rolling stock freight wagons | TSI rolling stock traction units –locos, EMUs, DMUs- and coaches | TSI operations and traffic management (HS) | TSI operations and traffic management (CR) |
|-------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Axle distances | 2.1 incl. Figure 6 | Not yet specified | 4.2.3.2 | ? | | - |
| Wheel geometry | 2.2 incl. Figure 7 | 4.2.10 | 5.4.2.3 | ? |  | — |
| Vehicle mass (minimum axle load) | 3.1 | 4.1.2 | 4.2.3.2 | ? |  | — | 
| Metal-free space around wheels | 3.2 | Not yet specified | Chapter 6 (2) | ? |  | — | 
| Metal-mass of vehicle | 3.3 | Not yet specified | Open point | ? |  | — | 
| Wheel material | 3.4 | Not yet specified | 5.4.2.3 | ? | | — | 
| Impedance between wheels | 3.5 | 4.2.10e | 4.2.3.3.1 | ? |  | — | 
| Vehicle impedance  | 3.6 | Not yet specified | None | ? |  | — | 
| Use of sanding equipment | 4.1 | Not yet specified | None | ? |  | Not yet addressed | 
| Use of composite brake blocks | 4.2 | Not yet specified | Open point | ? |  | — | 
Traction current | 5.1 | Not yet specified | None | ? |  | — | 
Use of electric/magnetic brakes | 5.2 | 4.1.5, 4.2.15, 4.3.6 | None | ? |  |  (3) | 
Electric, magnetic, electromagnetic fields | 5.3 | 4.1.9 | None | ? |  | —	 | 


###4.2.12.   Electromagnetic compatibility

This basic parameter is split into two parts.

####4.2.12.1.   Internal control-command electromagnetic compatibility

Control-command equipment shall not interfere with other control-command equipment.

####4.2.12.2.   Electromagnetic compatibility between rolling stock and control-command track-side equipment

This includes the range of electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) emissions (conducted and induced traction current and other train originated currents, electromagnetic field characteristics as well as static fields) to be respected by rolling stock in order to ensure the correct functioning of the track-side control-command equipment. It includes the description for measuring the values.

Track-side train detection systems shall have the characteristics necessary to be compatible with rolling stock that conforms to the rolling stock TSI.

Annex A, Appendix 1 specifies the train detection systems characteristics necessary to be compatible with rolling stock. These characteristics will be included in the rolling stock TSI’s.

###4.2.13.   ETCS DMI (driver machine interface)

This basic parameter describes the information provided from the ETCS On-board system to the driver and entered to the ERTMS/ETCS On-board by the driver. See Annex A, Index 51.

It includes:

- ergonomics (including visibility),
- ETCS functions to be displayed,
- ETCS functions triggered by driver input.

###4.2.14.   EIRENE DMI (driver machine interface)

This basic parameter describes the information provided from the EIRENE on-board system to the driver and entered to the EIRENE on-board system by the driver. See Annex A, Index 32, 33, 51.

It includes:

- ergonomics (including visibility),
- EIRENE functions to be displayed,
- call related information outgoing,
- call related information incoming.

###4.2.15.   Interface to data recording for regulatory purposes

This basic parameter describes:

-data exchange between the juridical recorder and the downloading tool,
- communication protocols,
- physical interface,
- functional requirements for, and use of, data-recording.

It shall be possible for investigatory authorities in each Member State to have access to the recorded data that meets obligatory data-recording requirements for official and investigative purposes.

See Annex A Index 4, 5, 41, 55.

###4.2.16.   Visibility of track-side Control-command objects

This Basic parameter describes:

- the characteristics of retro-reflecting signs,
- driver’s external field of view. Track-side control-command objects that need to be observed by the driver must be sited taking into account the driver’s external field of view as defined in the TSI Traffic Operations and Management.

##4.3.   Functional and technical specifications of the interfaces to other subsystems

###4.3.1.   Interface to the subsystem traffic operation and management

All references to the TSI OPE CR are open points and remain to be confirmed, when this TSI will be approved.

####4.3.1.1.   Operating rules

The European conventional network will be subject to some unified operational requirements, which will be described in the CR TSI ‘Traffic operation and management’ (section 4.4 Operating rules of CCS TSI).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.4 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.2.   ETCS driver machine interface

This interface describes the information provided from the ERTMS ETCS On-board to the driver and entered to the ERTMS ETCS On-board by the driver. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.13 (ETCS DMI (driver machine interface)).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.4 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.3.   EIRENE driver machine interface

This interface describes the information provided from the EIRENE on-board system to the driver and entered to the EIRENE on-board system by the driver. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.14 (EIRENE DMI (Driver Machine Interface))

This interface is relevant to Class A systems. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.4 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.4.   Interface to data recording for regulatory purposes

This interface refers to the functional requirements for, and use of, data-recording. The control-command basic parameter is described in section section 4.2.15 (Interface to data recording for regulatory purposes).

This interface is relevant to Class A systems. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.2.3.5 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.5.   Guaranteed train braking performance and characteristics

The control-command subsystem requires provision of the guaranteed train braking performance. The TSI traffic operation and management will define the rules to determine the guaranteed braking performance of a train. The rolling stock TSI’s shall define the method of determining the braking performance of vehicles.

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.2.2.4 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.6.   Isolation of on-board ETCS functionality

This interface refers to the operational requirements for the isolation of the On-board ETCS functionality in case of failure. The control-command requirements are in section 4.2.2 (On-board ETCS functionality).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.4 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.7.   Key management

This interface refers to the operational requirements for Key Management. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.8 (Key Management).

This interface is relevant to Class A system.

TSI OPE CR: To be confirmed

####4.3.1.8.   Hot Axle Box Detectors

This interface refers to the operational requirements for hot axle box detectors. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.10 (HABD (Hot axle box detector)).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.2.3.5.1 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.9.   Driver Vigilance

This interface refers to the operational requirements for driver vigilance. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.2 (On-board ETCS functionality).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.3.3.7 (to be confirmed)

####4.3.1.10.   Use of sanding

This interface refers to the operational requirements for drivers so that sand does not adversely affect the performance of track-side train detection equipment. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.11 (Compatibility with track-side train detection systems).

TSI OPE CR: Presently not addressed in OPE TSI because level of detail is different: to be confirmed

####4.3.1.11.   Driver’s external field of view

This interface refers to the driver’s field of view through the cab windscreen. The requirements on Control-command are described in section 4.2.16 (Visibility of track-side Control-command objects).

TSI OPE CR: section 4.3.2.2 (to be confirmed)

###4.3.2.   Interface to the subsystem rolling stock

All references to interfaces with the CR TSI rolling stock traction units and coaches remain open points. Traction units mean locomotives, electric multiple units and diesel multiple units.

####4.3.2.1.   Compatibility with track-side train detection systems

Track-side train detection systems shall have the characteristics necessary to be activated by rolling stock which conforms to the rolling stock TSI. The control-command basic parameter and the references to the relevant rolling stock TSI’s are described in section 4.2.11 (Compatibility with track-side train detection systems).

####4.3.2.2.   Electromagnetic compatibility between rolling stock and control-command track-side equipment.

This interface is the range of electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) emissions (conducted and induced traction current and other train originated currents, electromagnetic field characteristics as well as static fields) to be respected by rolling stock in order to ensure the correct functioning of the track-side control-command equipment. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.12.2 (Electromagnetic compatibility between rolling stock and control-command track-side equipment).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons: not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.1.9

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.3.   Guaranteed train braking performance and characteristics

The control-commandsubsystem requires provision of the guaranteed train braking performance. The rolling stock TSI’s shall define the method of determining the braking performance of vehicles. The TSI traffic operation and management will define the rules to determine the guaranteed braking performance of a train.

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons: Section 4.2.4.1.2

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.1.5, 4.3.7, 4.3.9

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.4.   Position of control-command on-board antennae

The position of the Eurobalise and Euroloop antennae on the rolling stock shall be such that reliable data communication is assured at the extremes of the track geometry capable of being traversed by the rolling stock. The movement and behaviour of the rolling stock shall be taken into account. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.2 (On-board ETCS functionality).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

The position of the GSM-R antenna on the roof of vehicles is mainly dependent on measurements that have to be carried out for any type of vehicle taking into account also the position of other (new or existing) antennas. Under test conditions the output of the antenna has to comply with the requirements described in section 4.2.5 (ETCS and EIRENE air gap interfaces). The test conditions are also described in section 4.2.5 (ETCS and EIRENE air gap interfaces).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock HS: Annex 0, 0.5, section 4.2.4

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.5.   Physical environmental conditions

The climatic and physical environmental conditions of control-command equipment expected on the train shall be defined by reference to the Infrastructure Registers of the lines where the train is intended to operate and by reference to Annex A, Index A4.

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.3.12

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.6.   Electromagnetic compatibility

To facilitate the universal use of the equipment for the control-command on-board Assembly on new rolling stock accepted for operation upon the trans-European conventional network, the electromagnetic conditions expected on the train shall be defined in accordance with Annex A, Index A6. For Eurobalise communication system specific provisions in Annex A, Index 9 apply.

Requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI Rolling stock HS:

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling Stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.7.   Isolation of on-board ETCS functionality

This interface refers to the isolation of the on-board ETCS functionality. The control-command requirements are in 4.2.2 (On-board ETCS functionality).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B subsystems are defined by the responsible Member States (see Annex B).

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.2.4 (to be added in)

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.8.   Data interfaces

The data interface between the train and control-command on-board assembly is defined in Annex A, Index 7.

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.2.4, 4.3.13

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons are not concerned for ETCS level 1 and level 2.

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

The interface requirements between the radio communications and the rolling stock subsystem are specified in Annex A, Index 33.

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

The respective corresponding specification is laid down in

- TSI Rolling stock freight wagons: not concerned.
- TSI Rolling stock HS: Section
- TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.9.   Hot axle box detectors

This interface refers to the technical requirements for hot axle box detectors. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.10 (HABD (Hot axle box detector)).

The respective corresponding specification is laid down in

- TSI Rolling stock freight wagons: Section 4.2.3.3.2
- TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.2.11, 4.3.13
- TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.10.   Vehicle headlights

This interface refers to the technical requirements for the chromaticity and luminosity of vehicle headlights to ensure the correct visibility of reflective lineside signage and reflective clothing. The control-command requirements are described in section 4.2.16 (Visibility of track-side control-command objects).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section: 4.2.20

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.11.   Driver vigilance

This interface refers to the technical requirements for driver vigilance. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.2 (On-board ETCS functionality).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.2.2

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.12.   Odometry

This is the interface between the odometry device and the odometry functionality required for ETCS on-board functions.

This interface to rolling stock TSI’s is only relevant to the basic parameter described in section 4.2.6.3 (Odometry) when odometry equipment is supplied as a separate interoperability constituent (see section 5.2.2 Grouping of interoperability constituents).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).TSI Rolling stock HS: Section 4.2.4

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.13.   Interface to data recording for regulatory purposes

This interface refers to the technical requirements for data recording. The control-command basic parameter is described in section 4.2.15 (Interface to data recording for regulatory purposes).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI Rolling stock freight wagons not concerned.

TSI Rolling stock HS: section 4.3.13

TSI Rolling stock traction units and coaches

####4.3.2.14.   Onboard pre-fitting

This interface refers to the extend of pre-fitting on a rolling stock with Class A equipment as described in Annex A, Index 57.

This interface is relevant to Class A systems.

TSI Rolling stock HS: section 4.2.4

###4.3.3.   Interfaces to subsystem infrastructure

####4.3.3.1.   Train detection systems

The infrastructure installation shall ensure that the train detection system respects the requirements quoted in section 4.2.11 (Compatibility with track-side train detection systems).

TSI Infrastructure: a reference to CCS TSI will be included in future TSI so that CCS requirements can be respected by Infrastructure.

####4.3.3.2.   Track-side antennae

Track-side subsystems antennae must be positioned so that reliable data communication is assured at the extremes of the track geometry capable of being traversed by the rolling stock. The movement and behaviour of the rolling stock shall be taken into account. See section 4.2.5 (ETCS and EIRENE air gap interfaces).

This interface is relevant to Class A system. Equivalent requirements for Class B systems are defined by the appropriate Member State (see Annex B).

TSI Infrastructure: tbd relative to the gauge

####4.3.3.3.   Physical environmental conditions

The climatic and physical environmental conditions expected in the infrastructure shall be indicated in the Infrastructure Register, by reference to Annex A, Index A5.

####4.3.3.4.   Electromagnetic compatibility

The electromagnetic conditions expected in the infrastructure shall be defined by reference to Annex A, Index A7. For the Eurobalise communication system the specific provisions in Annex A, Index 9 apply. A control-command on-board assembly complying with Annex A, Index A6 and the specific requirements for Eurobalise in Annex A, Index 9 shall be considered compliant with the relevant essential requirements.

###4.3.4.   Interfaces to subsystem energy

####4.3.4.1.   Electromagnetic compatibility

The electromagnetic conditions expected from the fixed installations shall be defined by reference to Annex A, Index A7. For the Eurobalise communication system the specific provisions in Annex A, Index 9 apply. A control-command on-board assembly complying with Annex A, Index A6 and the specific requirements for Eurobalise in Annex A, Index 9 shall be considered compliant with the relevant essential requirements.

##4.4.   Operating rules

The operating rules specific to the control-command subsystem are detailed in the TSI Traffic operation and management.

##4.5.   Maintenance rules

The maintenance rules of the subsystem covered by this TSI shall ensure that the values quoted in the basic parameters indicated in Chapter 4 are maintained within the required limits throughout the lifetime of the assemblies. However, during preventative or corrective maintenance, the subsystem may not be able to achieve the values quoted in the basic parameters; the maintenance rules shall ensure that safety is not prejudiced during these activities.

To achieve these results, the following shall be respected.

###4.5.1.   Responsibility of manufacturer of equipment

The manufacturer of equipment incorporated in the subsystem shall specify:

- all maintenance requirements and procedures (including supervision of well functioning, diagnosis and test methods and tools) necessary for the achievement of essential requirements and values quoted in the mandatory requirements of this TSI during the whole equipment life-cycle (transport and storage before installation, normal operation, failures, repair actions, verifications and maintenance interventions, de-commissioning etc.),
- all the risk for health and safety that may affect the public and the maintenance staff,
- the conditions for first line maintenance (i.e. the definition of line replaceable units (LRUs), the definition of approved compatible versions of hardware and software, the substitution of failed LRUs, and e.g. the conditions for storage of LRUs and for repair of failed LRUs,
- the technical conditions for running a train with failed equipment to the end of its mission or to the workshop (degraded mode from a technical point of view, e.g. functions partially or fully switched off, isolation from other functions etc.).
- the verifications to be performed in case equipment is subject to exceptional stress (e.g. exceedance of environmental conditions or abnormal shocks)

###4.5.2.   Responsibility of contracting entities

The contracting entities shall:

- ensure that, for all components within the scope of this TSI (regardless if interoperability constituents or not), the maintenance requirements as described in section 4.5.1 (Responsibility of manufacturer of equipment) are defined.

- set up the necessary maintenance rules relevant for all components within the scope of this TSI taking account of risks due to interactions of different equipment inside the subsystem and interfaces to other subsystems.

###4.5.3.   Responsibility of infrastructure manager or railway undertaking

The infrastructure manager or railway undertaking responsible for operating the on-board or track-side assembly:

- Shall set up a maintenance plan as specified in section 4.5.4 (Maintenance plan).

###4.5.4.   Maintenance plan

The maintenance plan shall be based on the provisions specified in section 4.5.1 (Responsibility of manufacturer of equipment), section 4.5.2 (Responsibility of contracting entities) and section 4.5.3 (Responsibility of infrastructure manager or railway undertaking) and cover, at least:

- conditions for the use of equipment, according to the requirements indicated by the manufacturers,
- specification of the maintenance programs (e.g. definition of preventive and corrective maintenance categories, maximum time between preventive maintenance actions and corresponding precautions to be taken for the safety of the subsystem and the maintenance staff, considering interference of maintenance actions with the operation of the Control-command subsystem),
- requirements for the storage of spare parts,
- definition of first line maintenance,
- rules for the management of failed equipment,
- requirements related to the minimum competence of maintenance staff, with reference to the risks for health and safety,
- definition of responsibilities and authorisation of maintenance staff (e.g. for access to equipment, management of limitations and/or interruptions of system operation, replacement of LRUs, repair of failed LRUs, restore of normal system operation),
- procedures for the management of ETCS-identities. See section 4.2.9 (ETCS-ID Management),
- methods for reporting to the manufacturer of equipment information on safety-critical defects and frequent system failures.

##4.6.   Professional qualifications

The professional qualifications required for the operation of the control-command subsystem are covered by the TSI Traffic Operation and Management.

The competence requirements for the maintenance of the Control-command subsystem shall be detailed in the maintenance plan (see section 4.5.4 Maintenance plan).)

##4.7.   Health and safety conditions

In addition to the requirements specified in the maintenance plans, see section 4.5 (Maintenance rules), precautions shall be taken to ensure health and safety for maintenance and operations staff, in accordance with the European regulations and the national regulations that are compatible with the European legislation.

##4.8.   Infrastructure and Rolling stock registers

The control-command subsystem is treated as two assemblies:

- the on-board assembly,
- the track-side assembly.

The requirements for the conventional rail infrastructure and rolling stock register content with regard to the control-command assemblies are specified in Annex C (line specific and train specific characteristics).
